Good morning.
I'm Guy Fullerton,
manager of the high-level toolbox,
Xleaf Node.
Hello, my name is Mike Engber,
and I'm an engineer in the Cocoa group.
And just to make things more confusing,
we're going to change sides now.
So hopefully everybody got a chance to
see the voiceover session yesterday.
And hopefully you got a really good feel
about how important accessibility is
to Mac OS X and how powerful it can be.
So in this session,
we're going to build on yesterday's
session and describe some of
the implementation details you
need to go through with your
applications to make them accessible.
We're going to give you a
brief architectural overview
of how accessibility works.
We're going to talk about how to
accessorize two types of widgets.
We're going to tell you how to
add stuff to a standard widget,
augment it with a few extra things
you might want to augment it with.
And then we're going to tell you how
to accessorize a custom widget that
derives from one of our standard ones.
And finally, we're going to have a long
section on troubleshooting and
giving you tips and tricks for
accessorizing your application.
So I think Mike's going to start
out with the conceptual overview.
Okay, so before we get into the details
on what you need to do to make your
applications work with accessibility,
I'm going to give you a little bit of
background on the Accessibility APIs.
So when we talk about
the Accessibility APIs,
there are really three
things to consider.
First, there's the Accessibility
APIs themselves.
And in this slide,
they're shown with the green box.
And these are the APIs that we
introduced back in Jaguar and that
assistive apps use to examine the
user interface and interact with
other applications on the system.
The second part of the story are
the assistive apps themselves.
And those of you who went to
session 424 yesterday got to see a
prime example of an assistive app,
which was VoiceOver.
And the third part of the story are
the Cocoa apps and the Carbon apps,
which the assistive apps examine.
And that's what we're going
to be focusing on today,
specifically what you need to do to
make sure that your application works
properly with the Accessibility APIs.
Now one thing to bear in mind,
even though we talk a lot about
VoiceOver as being a prime
example as an assistive app,
nothing in this presentation
is specific to VoiceOver.
The things you do here are going to
enable your application to work with all
kinds of different assistive apps that
have been developed for the Macintosh OS.
Now this slide is an abstract
representation of an assistive app
trying to examine the user interface
of either a Cocoa app or a Carbon app.
And the question marks show one of the
key design problems that we had to make
a decision on when developing these APIs.
How are the applications
going to represent their user
interface to the assistive app?
Now, an obvious choice would be
to use the natural way each
application implements its objects.
So in a Cocoa app,
that's NSWindows and NSControls.
And for a Carbon app,
that's WindowRefs and ControlRefs.
But the problem with doing it
this way is it puts an extra
burden on the assistive app.
You have to do twice as much code.
You have to have one set of code
that knows the Cocoa objects,
and then you have to have another set of
code that understands the Carbon objects.
And the situation only gets worse if we
introduce other frameworks into the mix.
So in this slide,
we outline our solution.
And the basic way we represent
the user interface is through
something called a UI element.
Everything's a UI element.
Windows are UI elements.
Buttons are UI elements.
Even the application
itself is a UI element.
So both Cocoa apps and Carbon apps
are going to return to the through
the Accessibility APIs their
UI represented as a bunch of UI elements.
So, to summarize,
a UI element is an abstract
object we use to represent a
part of the user interface.
And the applications represent themselves
as a whole hierarchy of UI elements.
Assistive apps will look at a
UI element which has attributes.
And the assistive app can
use these attributes to get
information about the UI element.
For example, its title or its value,
or it could use the children
attribute in order to start traversing
the hierarchy of UI elements.
UI elements also support actions,
and these are what assistive apps
use to actually drive applications.
For instance, to press a button or
to increment a slider.
So to sort of bring these concepts alive,
Guy is going to demonstrate one
of our tools called Accessibility
Inspector and do a live demonstration
of inspecting one text edit.
Yeah, so if I could have the
second computer please.
Perfect.
Thank you.
All right.
So what I have running here is TextEdit,
and I've got a document open that
has just a little bit of text in it.
And I'm going to run the
Accessibility Inspector application,
which is part of the
developer's Tools install.
And when I run the
Accessibility Inspector,
you get this floating window that
describes whatever the mouse is over.
Now, by default,
the font size is really small,
and I can see it fine,
but something tells me you won't be
able to read it unless I make it bigger.
That should be okay.
So now as I move my mouse around the
screen and point at different things,
the Accessibility Inspector updates
with information about each of
the elements that I roll over.
So if I stop on this text area,
for example, you can see the hierarchy
that contains that text area.
It's inside the application TextEdit,
inside the window Document,
inside a scroll area, inside a text area,
and then it's a link.
As you can see in the Attributes section,
there's a number of
attributes it supports.
It's got a role, ax-link.
It has a role description,
which looks like it's a bug,
to tell you the truth.
It's got a sub-role,
and it's got a parent,
various other pieces of
information about it.
And of course,
the attributes that an element
supports varies based on the element.
So if I go and hover over a push button,
you can see a different
set of attributes,
and even some actions in this case.
One cool thing that the
Accessibility Inspector can
do is lock onto a UI element.
So if I press F5,
you see the text in the Inspector go red,
and you see another
floating window appear.
And now when I move the mouse,
the text in the
Inspector no longer updates.
So I'm locked onto the UI element,
and I'm locked on that push button,
which lets me do a couple
really cool things.
The first thing is I can potentially
manipulate other parts of the
UI with my mouse without disrupting
what the Inspector's showing.
But the second cool thing I can
do is potentially go up and
down the containment hierarchy.
In the second window that shows up,
there's a Go To menu,
and I can choose other things
from within that Go To menu.
I can go to the button's parent,
which is the Preferences
window as a whole.
Now this is really important if you need
to get to an element in your application
because you don't really have much of a
visible UI widget that you can point at,
but you can point to some child of that.
So if you can point to a child of it,
you can continually traverse up
the parent hierarchy until you
get to the element you want.
Not only can you go up,
but you can also go down.
So now that I'm looking at the
Preferences window element,
I bring up the Go To menu,
and I can see that there's
a list of children.
So I can go to any of these groups,
and from within those groups,
go into the children of the group,
and so I can find all kinds of
different things out about elements.
So let's go ahead and
get back to the button,
real quick.
I want to show you another
cool thing you can do.
So also in this secondary window,
there's a pop-up with all of the-- let
me bring this up a little bit-- all of
the attributes that the button supports.
So you can choose one,
and it changes the little value
in the text area here to represent
the value for that attribute.
Now this doesn't show it really well.
Let me see if I can find one here.
If I lock onto a text field,
Indeed, I am in a text field
and I choose the value.
Actually, when I pop up this menu,
you can see that there's a
W next to the AX value attribute.
That means the value is writable.
So now,
when I choose value from the pop-up,
you can see that the text is now
writable inside the secondary window
and I can change that to say 80,
press set value, and you see it actually
updates in the interface.
Another cool thing you can do
with the secondary window is
click the highlight checkbox.
This is an easy way that you can test to
make sure the size and position you're
returning for an element is correct.
So I've locked onto this text field
and when I click highlight you get
that pink window that shows what
you're highlighting or the bounds
of the thing you're highlighting.
And in fact highlight sort of
stays on once you've clicked it.
You can click it again to turn it off.
But the cool part about that is
you can hit F5 again to unlock,
go point at some other object,
and it now highlights that other object.
So it's really good for testing
those kinds of problems,
bounds related problems.
Let's go back to the button
again because there's one
more thing I want to show you.
Don't need the highlight anymore.
Alright, so I hovered over the button and
it's revert to default settings.
And you see that I had already
changed the window width to 75.
So I've already varied from the default.
Another thing in the secondary
window is a set of actions
that an element supports.
Buttons support a press action
because you can press buttons.
And the cool thing about the palette
is I can perform that action.
And when I perform that action you see
the revert button actually flash and then
the window width gets updated back to 75.
So Accessibility Inspector is
a really powerful tool.
Probably the most common tool
you'll use when you're accessorizing
your application to test that
you're doing things correctly.
So I'd like to go back to slides now.
So that's a brief overview
of one of the tools.
So now it's time to dive down into the
nitty gritty of how you can sort of
implement this in your own applications.
But some of you are probably wondering,
how hard is this going to be?
So we have this fancy little chart
here that can illustrate that for you.
OK, colors and jokes aside,
the basic principle is the
more standard stuff you use,
the far easier it is
to become accessible.
The more custom stuff you use,
the more work you have to
spend making it accessible.
And that's just, you know,
it's regardless of whether you're
a Cocoa app or a Carbon app.
For example, if you're a modern Cocoa app
or a modern Carbon app that's
based on HIV and compositing,
it's really, really easy to accessorize
that application.
But most apps can't use just
the standard system widgets,
right?
Most apps have a few custom things.
And so those apps, you know,
they'll need to do a little bit more
work to accessorize those custom widgets.
And that's not too tough either.
The real problem case is when you're
at the far other end of the spectrum
and you're a completely custom
app doing all kinds of old stuff.
Let's say you're on a really old
class library and you ported your
application to 10 and made it run,
but it's not using the very modern
technologies of either framework.
Well,
that's going to be really challenging
to accessorize because you're
pretty much going to need to
add accessibility information to
everything in your interface except
for the few standard widgets you use.
So the take home is really maybe this
is the time not just to accessorize
but to adopt other Apple technology
like HIV in your application.
Sure, it's going to take a little
bit of effort to adopt HIV,
but that effort is going
to pay off in two ways.
You're going to get a bunch
of other benefits from HIV,
and of course it's going
to make your accessibility
implementation a lot easier as well.
So you should seriously consider that
when you're accessorizing your apps.
Okay, so I showed you some
attributes in the Inspector,
but let's talk a little bit
more about some of them.
So fundamentally,
attributes provide information
to an accessible application
about the elements in your app.
And an assistive application will want
to make four main requests of your
app with respect to its attributes.
Given an element,
an assistive app needs to know what
attributes does that element support.
It might want to get the
values of certain attributes.
And of course, it'll want to see if an
attribute is settable.
And if it's settable,
it's going to want to set the attribute.
Now all of the attributes,
at least all the standard attributes,
can be seen in the HI Services header
I've put on the slide.
But when you open that header,
don't be scared by the sheer
quantity of attributes in there.
There's a lot.
There's dozens and dozens and dozens.
Don't let that make you think
it's really hard to accessorize.
Most elements only support a
small handful of attributes.
As I was showing in the Inspector,
you know, push buttons have about 10.
Various other things might have about 15.
So it's really not that tough.
So don't feel daunted when
you open up the header.
So I want to talk about some of
the very most common attributes
that you're going to have to use
and you're going to come across.
The most fundamental
attribute is the role.
Every element must have a role.
A role describes an
element's basic purpose.
And in fact, a role is what an assistive
application uses to determine how
it should present this interface
to the user in some other way.
VoiceOver, for example,
when it sees a button,
it knows the button's got certain
properties associated with it.
And it knows it can communicate
with the user in a certain very
specific way about the button.
However,
an assistive application can't use that
role as sort of a spoken description
to the user about what the element is,
because mainly the role
strings are prefixed with AX,
and they're just there to
be sort of switched on at
runtime by the application.
So if an assistive application
wants to present a human readable
representation of that role's purpose,
it uses the role description attribute,
which is a localized string that
can be spoken to the user or
shown to the user in some fashion.
Now another really common
attribute is the title attribute.
It's generally obvious when to use this.
The "Don't Apply" button up there,
its title is "Don't Apply."
The checkboxes in the other window,
the title's right next to them.
Those are pretty easy.
But the thing to realize is that the
title attribute is only for visible text.
Don't try to put a title in
place for a push button that
just has a picture on it.
That doesn't make sense.
The assistive applications assume
that if there is a title attribute,
there is visible text
associated with that element.
If you have an icon button,
there are other ways to provide
information to an assistive app,
and we'll cover that a little bit later.
Another really common attribute
is the value attribute.
Again, this is self-explanatory
for the most part,
but there's a really cool aspect,
and that is that,
unlike a lot of other attributes,
the value attribute can
be of just about any type.
Of course,
the type depends on the role of
the element you're talking about.
The checkboxes on the furthest
back window there on the screen,
they're going to have a
value that's a number,
and it's going to be either zero or one
based on whether the checkbox is checked.
By contrast, the text field on the
terminal info window,
its value is the text inside the field,
and that's going to be
a CFStringRef generally,
possibly some slightly
different representation.
But again,
it's two completely different data
types that depend on the role of
the element you're talking about.
Now, as Mike said,
elements are hierarchically organized
within an accessible application.
You've got an application that has,
as children, probably a menu bar,
several windows,
and each of those windows are
going to have child elements that
are various views and buttons and
things like that within the window.
And then, of course,
the other thing that's going
to be a parent element.
So every element has a parent.
Now, that's not technically true.
There is one element that
doesn't have a parent,
but that's something that we write,
so you'll never need to worry
about that in your applications.
So for your purposes,
just remember that every
element has a parent.
The children attribute, however,
are not necessarily
supported by every element.
The children attribute only needs
to be supported for elements that
obviously contain other elements.
A window is going to have children.
It's going to be the
views within the window.
But a push button, for example,
doesn't have children.
It doesn't make sense because
the text in the button is
already represented as its title.
So Mike is now going to take
you through the easiest case of
accessorizing an application.
Okay.
So as Guy said,
if you stick to the standard widgets,
you're going to get most of
your accessibility for free.
And in fact,
all the attributes Guy was just talking
about are things that the frameworks,
you know, either Cocoa or Carbon are
going to provide for you.
And there's lots of other attributes
like the position and size,
which he didn't go over,
that the frameworks are
going to provide for you.
But there are some things
that we can't figure out.
And the example Guy gave
of a graphical button,
a button that just has a picture in it,
is one case where we cannot
figure out what that button means.
And that's what we're going to
discuss in the next few slides.
A handful of attributes that you're going
to need to implement because there's
just not enough information for us to
provide them at the framework level.
So the first of the,
for lack of a better name,
I'm going to call these
instance attributes.
And that's because you have
to go in by hand and for each
instance of these kind of widgets,
you're going to have to provide
this sort of information for us.
And the first one I want to
talk about is the description.
Now the description is a string
that describes what a widget does,
but it doesn't describe
what the widget is.
Now let me reiterate that.
It describes what the widget does.
What the widget is is
covered by the role.
And so, for instance,
a button is known to be a button
because of the role attribute.
And if this button happens to
cause the text to be left aligned,
That's the information we want to be
provided by the description attribute.
So if we take a look
at the DVD controller,
we can see that a lot of the
buttons there don't have any text.
And so in this case,
the assistive app is going to rely on you
to provide a description of what they do.
Otherwise, all it's going to know
is that this is a button.
And the users, you know,
will be able to press it,
but they'll have no way to figure
out in advance of pressing it
what the heck it's going to do.
Now even buttons that have titles
are sometimes hard to figure out.
Take a look at the calculator.
All the buttons there have a title,
but a good percentage of those titles
aren't particularly informative.
So for instance, you know,
the MC button or the period button.
You know,
if you don't provide a description,
it's going to be pretty mysterious
as to what these buttons do.
So in case all this is
a little bit confusing,
all these attributes,
let's just go over an example.
Let's take the MC button
in the calculator.
That button is going to have a role.
The role is going to be AX button,
and that's provided by the framework.
The button's also going to
have a role description.
And that's going to be button.
And this is a human readable string.
It's going to be localized.
And again,
we provide that in the framework.
It's going to have a title,
and the title is going to
be a two-character string,
the letters MC.
And once again,
that's provided by the framework.
And then there'll be some other
attributes like its position and size
that are also provided by the framework,
but that's it.
And we're going to rely on you guys to
go in and give that button a description,
which would be a string,
something like memory clear.
The next instance attribute
I'm going to talk about is the
Title UI element attribute.
Now recall that we mentioned before
that the Title attribute is a string
that a widget actually displays.
And take a look at the lock button.
The string next to it isn't part of it,
so the lock button will not have a title.
But yet,
there's this piece of static text next
to it that a sighted user can figure
out serves as the title for that lock.
In order to make this relationship
available for assistive applications,
you need to implement the
title UI element attribute,
and its value will be a reference to
another element that serves as its title,
in this case,
the piece of static text next to it.
In order to make this relationship
available for assistive applications,
you need to implement the
title UI element attribute,
and its value will be a reference to
another element that serves as its title,
in this case,
the piece of static text next to it.
In order to make this relationship
available for assistive applications,
you need to implement the
title UI element attribute,
and its value will be a reference to
another element that serves as its title,
in this case,
the piece of static text next to it.
There's a related attribute
called the serves as title
for UI elements attribute.
This is the back pointer.
This could be useful if an assistive
app allows the user to mouse over
a piece of text and it wants to
decide what purpose does this
text serve in the user interface.
If it has a serves as title
for UI elements attribute,
then it will know that this
piece of text is the title
for this list of UI elements.
The value for this attribute is an array
because a single piece of text often
serves as the title for multiple widgets.
Another very important instance attribute
is the Linked UI Elements attribute.
A common model in user interfaces is
to allow the user to make a selection
from a list or a table or a radio group,
and then another part of the
user interface reconfigures
itself to reflect that selection.
Now, just because you make a selection in
one spot and other widgets change,
there's no way for the frameworks
to sort of detect this relationship.
And that's why we rely on you
to give the list or the table a
linked UI elements attribute that
shows us that the selection in this
object affects these other widgets.
Now the linked UI elements
attribute is an array because
often this selection affects a
whole bunch of other UI elements.
And it might look like in this
slide that that's the case here,
but it really isn't.
In this case,
the array would contain just one element,
the tab group.
Now if the tab group weren't there,
then it would contain the whole host
of elements you see on the screen.
And I think in most cases you'll
find that the linkage will be to a
single sort of grouping UI element.
The last instance attribute I'm going
to talk about is specific to sliders.
Another common practice is to create
a slider and then create separate
[Transcript missing]
All right, so now we've talked about some
of these instance attributes.
And the next question is, well,
how do you go about implementing them?
And before Tiger,
the answer was you had to
actually subclass the widget in
order to add these attributes.
And that's pretty cumbersome.
And now that we're trying to encourage
developers to add all these attributes,
it's not a really nice story to say,
well, you have to create a subclass for
every widget in your user interface
just in order to provide descriptions.
So in Tiger,
both Cocoa and Carbon have introduced
APIs that allow you to take a
particular instance of a widget and
associate a new attribute with it.
And that's what we're going to
talk about in the next few slides.
First, I'm going to discuss
how it's done in Cocoa.
Guy's going to cover
how it's done in Carbon.
And then we're going to give you a sneak
preview of how this can be done in IB,
Interface Builder,
without writing any code.
But that doesn't quite work.
It doesn't quite work
yet in your Tiger seed.
So that's sort of a future direction.
But the slides we're going to
present next on how to do it in code
work today with your Tiger seed.
So I'm going to start by just giving
you the API in Cocoa that performs this.
It's called Accessibility
Set Override Value.
And you pass it the attribute and
the value you want it to have.
And that's pretty simple.
Well, it's not quite that simple.
The first thing is,
even though this is a method on NSObject,
you can't use it on any old NSObject.
You can only use it on objects that
implement the accessibility protocol.
And the second point goes back to
another thing I alluded to earlier.
One of the big advantages of the
whole scheme of UI elements is that
we squish some extraneous detail out
of the natural representation and
we don't expose it to accessibility.
So for instance, in a Cocoa app,
there's a button on the screen
actually consists of a button
object and then inside is another
object called the button cell.
And the real meat of the button is
implemented in the button cell and that's
all that's exposed to accessibility.
So if you set the attribute
on the outer button,
not the button cell,
it's going to have no useful effect
because the button cell-- the button
is not exposed to accessibility,
only the button cell.
And if that sounds a little confusing,
I'd like to refer you to
the AppKit release notes.
And there's a long section
that's written about how,
you know, these sorts of gotchas.
Another thing that might cause
some confusion is the fact that
there's a couple of these methods
that both have the word set
and attribute in their names.
Now, there's an entirely different
concept in accessibility,
and that is allowing assistive
apps are allowed to set the
values of certain attributes.
So, for instance, an assistive app might
want to move a window,
and it does this by setting the
value of the position attribute.
But that's an entirely
different thing than giving the
window a position attribute.
The window already has
a position attribute,
and the giving it of it,
the method I'm describing here allows
you to add attributes to things.
And this is something you do.
Whereas the method accessibility
set value for attribute,
that's where the assistive apps come in,
and they set the attributes values
for the attributes where you allow it.
So here's a bit of example code on how
you might accomplish this in a Cocoa app.
We're going to give a description to
a back arrow button that otherwise
has no text associated with it.
The AwakeFromNib method is called on the
file's owner when this widget is loaded.
So that's a natural
place to try to do this.
And notice the first thing we do
is we extract the proper thing.
We extract the button
cell out of the button.
And then we make our call.
Accessibility set override value.
We pass it the string back and the
name of the attribute we want to set.
And that's all there is to it.
and now Guy is going to explain
how this works in Carbon.
So before I dive into this new
API that we added for Tiger,
I want to cover one other detail.
And that's the notion of what
is exactly accessible in Carbon.
As you can see,
this API's first parameter
is an HI Object Ref.
HI Object Refs are the key
to accessibility on Carbon.
Any HI Object Ref and controls, windows,
menus, they're all HI objects.
Each of those constructs
is inherently accessible.
In fact, controls,
windows and menus already have a bunch
of built-in accessibility infrastructure.
And that's how we're going to
provide all the default attributes.
So you'll see some of our
accessibility APIs take HI Objects.
And essentially what you can do is you
can take any window Ref or control Ref,
menu Ref, cast it into an HI Object and
just call these APIs.
So the equivalent API to what Mike just
showed is called HI Object Set Auxiliary
Accessibility Attribute.
Wow, I actually got that out.
First thing you need to pass in
is the HI object and an identifier
that represents the element you
wish to add the attribute to.
Then you give it a name and you give
it the data you want to associate.
So again, same sort of example.
There's a back button in your interface,
but it just has an icon on it, no text.
You want to give it a description.
Here's how you do it.
Let's say you happen to
create your window from a nib.
You can call hiview findbyid
to look up your back button.
So now you've got a reference
to your back button.
Then you call this new API,
pass the back button and zero.
See how I've casted the back button,
which is normally an hiv ref,
into an object ref.
Pass that back button and
an identifier of zero,
which says, "Hey,
I want to associate some data with
the element that represents the
whole button." You give it the
attribute you want to add and you
give it the data you want to add,
which is the string back.
And once you've done that,
the accessibility infrastructure
in Carbon will take care of
the rest for you automatically.
It's really pretty cool.
So now I'd like to bring up
Aaron Haney to give you a brief
demo of Interface Builder and how
it can make your lives a lot easier.
Or will be able to make
your lives a lot easier.
Thanks, Guy.
OK.
So this is very similar to the demo I did
yesterday during the voiceover session,
but I'm going to show a
few additional things.
So what we have here in Xcode is a small
Hello World style app that just has
a couple of text fields and a button.
And right now,
it doesn't have anything other
than the default accessibility
information in all of the UI elements.
As Guy and Mike say,
a lot of the standard widgets will
give you a lot of the stuff for free,
but it doesn't quite give you everything.
So let me just show you real quick
what happens if you look at this
with an accessibility application.
: The spoken interface is inactive.
Press Control Option F6 to learn more.
Demo app application.
Window accessibility demo
onto edit text field.
Now you can see it's just
saying edit text field.
In a text field.
And down here.
Button.
That's not very descriptive.
It tells you what kind of control it is,
but it doesn't say
anything else about it.
Let me turn this off
before it gets too chatty.
So to fix this, we can open the nib.
And you'll notice in the info window,
there's an extra item, Accessibility.
So let's select these edit text fields.
Now this is a case where we don't want to
enter a title for this UI element itself.
What we want to do is link it to
another UI element and have it use the
title of the one that it's linked to.
What we can do is just control click and
drag and create a connection and select
title UI element and connect that up.
Now let's do the same thing
for the last name field.
And while I'm here,
I'm going to take a look at this button,
which is an image button,
a fairly common case.
As Guy mentioned,
a title is for a case where
there's actual text on the control.
And in this case,
there is no actual text,
so a title is inappropriate.
What we want to do is add a description.
So we'll go to the description
field here and type in some text.
Now the fact that it's a button comes
out of the role description attribute.
So you don't want to put button in
this field because then it would read,
OK, button, button.
So we just want to put just a
description of the control itself,
not what kind of control it is.
So let's try this again.
Spoken Interface is inactive.
Press Control Option F6 to
Interface Builder Application.
Window Accessibility Demo onto
First Name Edit Text Field.
And there it is.
Last Name Edit Text Field.
OK button.
So now with just a little bit
of work in Interface Builder,
we've added accessibility to this
small Hello World application.
Now a couple of other things
that I want to show you is,
An accessibility inspector.
Guy already mentioned
that in the locked view,
let's lock on one of these text fields.
And we'll highlight it just so
you know which one I'm locked on.
[Transcript missing]
You can also go to any linked
elements such as the title you want.
And now you can see it jump
over to the first name field.
And from now on,
whenever I update the text
in that static text field,
it will automatically get picked up.
As far as accessibility is concerned,
the title of these edit text fields will
and Mike Schumacher will be
presenting their presentations.
So that's it.
Now we want to emphasize that the support
that's on the CD/DVD is incomplete.
This is just to show you the
direction that we're moving in.
We advise you to not use
it as it is right now.
We hope to get that addressed
as soon as possible.
But anyway, this is where we're headed.
We want it to be as easy and
convenient as possible so that you
can add accessibility information
from all sorts of places,
including Interface Builder.
And that's the demo.
Thanks, Guy.
Thanks, Aaron.
Okay, so now we've talked about the
easy case and what you have
to do with standard widgets.
And we anticipate that's going to be the
vast majority of the work that's needed
by applications to support accessibility.
But now we're going to bump things up
a notch and we're going to talk about
what you need to do for custom views.
And in the example we're
going to be working through,
we're going to be talking about
if you created your own button
class and instead of starting
from NSButton or a button ref,
you start from just a plain view.
And Guy and I are each going to
show how you do this in Carbon and
Cocoa and how you give a title to
this widget and a title attribute and
how you'd implement a press action.
Now the first,
some of you might be thinking, "Okay,
we just showed you how to add attributes.
Can't I just add a title that
way?" And the answer is yes,
that will work just fine.
And if you only have a couple instances
of your custom button in your app,
that might be good enough.
But maybe you're providing this
class for other people to use,
and wouldn't it be nice if the title
attribute came along for free instead
of making everyone implement it?
or another thing to think about is
maybe it's some other attribute like
the value in your widgets a slider.
The methods we just showed you take
a name of an attribute and a constant
value and that's not going to really
work so well for the value of a slider.
I mean I guess you could every time the
slider changes value reset that attribute
but that's not really very elegant.
So we're going to show you how to get
some code to run in order to implement
attributes and then we're also going
to show you how to do this for actions.
Now in Cocoa,
there's a protocol or a suite of
methods that you implement on an
object to support accessibility.
And there's four of those
methods relating to attributes.
And they correspond to the
four things that assistive
apps can do with attributes.
One of them is to get a list of the
attributes supported by a UI element.
The second is to get the value
of a particular attribute.
The third is to test if a
particular attribute is settable.
And the fourth is to
finally set that value.
And this code on this screen shows how
you implement the first of those methods,
Accessibility Attribute Names.
Now here, I've chosen to cache the
attribute names in a local static
variable just so I don't have to
compute them over and over again.
And the first thing we do is check if
the cache is full because if it is,
we don't have to do anything else.
It'll get returned.
But if we haven't computed the
list of attribute names yet,
the first thing we do is go
to the super class and get the
standard list of attributes.
Then we create a new array by
adding the attribute we want to add,
the title attribute,
to the end of the list.
And finally,
we tuck that away in the cache.
And that's all we need to do.
All right, this is the code that supports
returning the value for an attribute.
The method name is
AccessibilityAttributeValue.
And the first thing we do is check
if the attribute being queried
is the attribute of interest,
in this case, the title attribute.
And if it is,
we return our notion of the title.
Otherwise,
we let the superclass handle it.
And the last method I'm going to show
you is the method that handles returning
whether or not an attribute can be set.
And once again, we test,
is this the title attribute?
And if so, we return no,
because we don't allow users to
change the title of our button.
and if it's not,
we let the superclass handle it.
Now those of you who have been
paying attention might realize
I said there's four methods.
Well, the fourth method involves actually
setting the attribute and since we
don't allow the title ever to be set,
the code for this method would
always just defer to the superclass,
so there's really no
point in implementing it.
So from Carbon,
it's a very similar protocol
to what Mike described.
In Carbon,
accessibility is achieved through,
I think it's nine
different Carbon events.
You can install those however you
would normally install Carbon events.
In this example here,
I happen to be doing it in an
HIA Object subclass registration time.
You don't have to do it that way.
If you use Create Custom Control or
Create Custom Window or
something like that,
after you create the
control of the window,
you can call Install Event Handler and
install your event handlers afterwards.
It's all going to work just the same.
So three of the Carbon events
that we have up here are
the Get All Attribute Names,
Is Named Attribute Settable,
and Get Named Attribute Carbon Events.
Again, there's also an event
that's used for setting.
There's some events that we'll
talk about later used for actions.
There's also some events
used for hit testing.
We're not really going
to cover that today.
But there's lots and lots of
documentation in CarbonEvents.h
on exactly how you need
to handle these events,
what parameters you need to look for,
and what parameters you take out.
So let's dive into the example.
Thank you.
Okay, so the same example
Mike was talking about.
You've got a custom view that has a
title and you want to provide that
attribute because it's not being
provided for you automatically by
the view system because it doesn't
know your custom view has a title.
So here's what your handler for get
all attribute names might look like.
The Carbon event comes in.
You need to call next event handler to
let the inherited HIVU implementation
pre-populate it with a bunch
of the standard attributes,
like the size and position
and stuff like that,
all the stuff you want the
system to provide for you.
Then you extract the mutable array
of attribute names from the event,
and you add your attribute to that array,
and you return.
And that lets the
accessibility system know that,
hey, there's this additional
attribute that's been added in.
The next event I want to
talk about is the Is Named
Attribute Settable Carbon Event.
When this Carbon Event comes in,
fetch the attribute name out
of the event and see if it's
the attribute you support.
If so, in this case,
obviously the title is not settable,
so we just stuff an event parameter
into the event indicating that no,
it's not settable, and then you return.
Let me jump back here.
Something I left out
of this code example.
Obviously, if it's not one of the
attributes you support,
call next event handler or
return event not handled error,
and that will let the inherited
implementation provide all
the right information for it.
So when an assistive application
wants to query a value,
again, very simple.
Extract the attribute name
out of the Carbon event.
If it's the one you support,
stuff an event parameter in
the event with the value.
In this case,
we're stuffing the title in.
Presumably, the title's a CFStringRef.
And the Carbon event manager's
going to do all the write,
retain, release semantics for CF types.
So now Mike's going to talk
a little bit about actions.
OK.
So we've shown how to add an
attribute to your custom view.
Next we're going to get
into how to add an action.
But first,
a little background on what actions are.
First, actions are very simple things.
They're about approximately what you
could accomplish with a mouse click.
And they're generic
things like pick or press.
Now often developers think, "Oh,
I've got a print button.
I need a print action," or
"I have a cancel button.
I need a cancel action."
And that's not the case.
If it's a button,
it should support the press action.
The fact that this button prints
can be discovered by looking at
its title or its description.
So don't fall into the trap of
thinking you need a lot of actions.
In fact, there's less than 10 actions
to find and I don't anticipate
that list growing very much.
The Accessibility APIs support
three basic operations with actions.
First,
you can ask a UI element for a list
of all the actions it supports,
and in most cases it's the
empty list or just one thing.
Then you can ask to get a human
readable string for a particular action,
that's its description.
And finally,
you can try to perform that action.
Now, Cocoa's accessibility protocol
has three methods that correspond
to those three operations,
and this slide shows an
implementation of the first,
returning a list of action names.
And it's very similar to what
you do with an attribute.
First, you call the superclass to get
a list of inherited actions,
and then we slap our action on the end of
the list and return the augmented list.
This is the method that handles returning
the description for a particular action.
As with attributes,
the first thing we do is check,
is this action the one of interest?
Because if it's not,
we'll let the superclass handle it.
But if it is,
we're going to call the NS Accessibility
Action Description function.
And this is something new in Tiger.
Before Tiger, if you were to return
an action description,
you sort of had to look around and say,
well,
how did we describe the press action?
And you might use Accessibility
Inspector and discover,
you know, the buttons had a press action.
And then you also had to maybe
guess how might they localize that?
So we're sort of taking the mystery
out of that process and giving
you a function that's going to
return what our standard widgets do.
For action descriptions.
And I refer you to the
AppKit release notes where this
function is described in detail,
along with some related
ones for role descriptions.
And the final method in this action suite
is for actually performing the action.
And first, again, we check,
is this the press action
that we care about?
If so, we do the appropriate thing.
Otherwise, the super class handles it.
And now Guy's going to
show what you do in Carbon.
So three of those nine Carbon events
are pretty much identical to the
AppKit methods for performing actions.
The first one is getAllActionNames.
It's a lot like getAllAttributeNames.
And in fact, you handle it the same way.
You call the next event
handler to let the inherited
implementation add any names.
You extract the mutable array of names
and you add your new action to it.
Get named action
description is also simple,
but there's one kind of weird catch here.
There is a mutable
string ref in this event.
You need to extract that string
ref and replace it with your text.
Replace the text in the string
with your text and return.
And so that's how you provide
an action description.
I've left out the code here just for
simplicity of where we are looking to
see if it's the action that we support.
And if not, of course,
it's going to call Next Event Handler.
Now, this is the only tricky part of
the accessibility Carbon events,
and that has to do with
performing named actions.
But before I kind of dive into this,
let me give you a little bit of
background for why this is complex.
When an assistive application is telling
your app to do a press operation,
that assistive application is blocking,
waiting for a response from
a messaging protocol to say
whether or not the app is alive,
right?
Your app might be crashed or
hung or in GDB or something.
And so the assistive application needs
to know if a timeout has elapsed and,
you know,
it's got to forego the attempt to press.
However, that need often contradicts
what actually happens in an
application when you perform a
press type operation on a button.
A lot of buttons will bring up
some kind of modal interface or
might cause a menu to be tracked,
which means that your
accessibility event handler is
not going to return right away,
right?
It's not going to return until the
user's done dealing with the dialogue,
which could potentially take minutes
depending on what the dialogue's for.
Which means that assistive application
who just sent the press request over is
going to get a timeout and it's going
to think the press failed and it's
going to communicate that to the user.
So now the user's going to be
really confused because they thought
something didn't work but now
there's this new interface that's
showing up and it's just a big mess.
So the way we solve that mess
is by a parameter in the perform
named action Carbon event.
There is a parameter indicating
whether or not this event was sent
to your element in a queued state.
Now by default, and this is mainly for
compatibility purposes,
the event gets sent to your element
initially in an unqueued state.
We dispatch it directly.
That's just the way we've been
doing it since our initial
accessibility implementations.
So if you see that happen, well,
let's go to the other case.
Let's say it hasn't been queued.
Or sorry, it has been queued.
That's the case you want to handle.
If it has been queued,
you can go ahead and
carry out your action.
In this particular situation,
we've got a button.
We just call HIV simulate click,
which will cause the button to flash,
send out all the right Carbon events
so your application can respond to it.
And it's safe to do it now
because the event's been queued.
You already know the assistive
app has received an appropriate
return value saying,
yeah, yeah, yeah, it was successful.
And if it wasn't queued,
you need to return the
event for access--sorry,
event defer accessibility
event error from your handler.
And that essentially is a request
to please queue this event and send
it to me at some time later because
I know I'm going to put up some
potentially blocking kind of interface.
So that's really the only trick to it.
Okay, so, so far we've been talking
about fairly easy cases,
right?
You've got an existing
view like a push button,
you just want to add a description to it,
or then you've got an NHIViewer or an
NSView subclass and you need to provide
some accessibility information above and
beyond what the frameworks offer for you.
But now the hardest case
is you've got some class,
it's not derived from NSViewer or
NHIViewer and you have to provide all
the accessibility information for it.
Now we're not going to
go into tons of detail,
mainly because we've already shown you
how to do this in the other examples.
There's just some things
you need to realize.
The first is that if you don't
inherit behavior from our
standard views and objects,
you have to provide all the accessibility
information for your objects.
That means all the attributes.
You have to tell size, position,
everything else you saw in
the accessibility inspector.
You have to provide all that.
You also need to provide handlers
for hit testing and focus testing
parts of the accessibility protocol.
This allows assistive applications
to figure out what's under the mouse.
In fact, that's the key for how
accessibility inspector works.
It finds the mouse position and calls
an accessibility API to try to find
out the element at that mouse position.
And so if your custom elements don't
support hit testing and focus testing,
there's no way accessibility browser
is going to work with your app.
Another thing you have a responsibility
for is sending notifications.
There's a handful of notifications.
It's in the HI Services headers,
so you can take a look there
for what needs to get sent out.
But essentially it's for things like,
"My object's about to be
destroyed," or "There was some
major state change with my object,
like a value change." Well,
if you are implementing
an element from scratch,
you need to make sure you send out
those notifications appropriately.
And we have both Carbon and
Cocoa APIs to do that.
There we go.
All right.
So now let's talk about some things
you need to think about when you're
accessorizing your application.
Said it before,
we've said it actually a number
of times in this session.
If you can switch over
to the standard controls,
you'll be much better off
because we're going to give
you a lot of support for free.
So again,
look at your applications interface.
See if maybe you're using
some custom objects that we've
provided some modern equivalents
for in recent operating systems,
try to switch over to those.
It's going to make your applications
interface better in a lot of ways.
Obviously it's going to meet the
latest Aqua guidelines because hey,
we're doing it.
And it's going to give you
accessibility support for free.
Now, a very subtle point is
don't invent new stuff.
Don't try to come up with new roles.
Don't think you need to
come up with new roles.
And the main reason is that
assistive apps won't know how
to deal with your new roles.
Assistive apps are designed around
this fairly finite set of roles
that we've already described.
You know, there's groups,
there's lists and things like that.
And if you invent a new role,
you're essentially asking every
assistive application out there to
rev just to support your new widget.
So really what you have to do is kind
of-- turn your widget around and think
about what your widget is a lot like
in terms of the standard widgets.
The best example I can give
for this is the crayon picker
in the color picker panel.
As we were going and accessorizing
various parts of the system,
we got to the color picker and we said,
oh, wow, crayons.
What are these things?
I don't know.
Do we need a new role for that?
Is it a crayon role in a crayon box?
I don't know.
But we took a good hard
look at this and said,
no, we don't need a new role.
Because really,
when you click on one crayon,
it selects that crayon.
And it selects all the other crayons.
It unselects all the
other crayons in the box.
So really what you're talking about is
a radio button inside a radio group.
So that's how we accessorized it.
Every crayon's role is a radio button.
And then the group around all
those crayons is a radio group.
And suddenly,
assistive applications can just deal
with that for free the way they've
already been dealing with radio groups.
OK, so you've found some
part of your application,
and you've decided to use one of
the standard rules to represent it.
Now here's some of your
responsibilities after you do that.
Take a look with
Accessibility Browser-- sorry,
Accessibility Inspector--
and find some element in the
system that has that same role.
And make sure you support
all the same attributes.
Assistive applications rely
on the fact that a given role
implies certain attributes,
and actions, in fact, as well.
For example,
an assistive application sees a button,
it knows it's got a press action.
It needs to be able to
assume that kind of thing.
So make sure you support the
same attributes and actions
as the standard roles.
Now if you run into a
situation where your element,
yeah,
pretty much fits into a standard role,
but there's enough subtle difference
that you kind of want to call it out.
But you don't want to force
all the assistive applications
to rev to support you.
You'd like to work for
free with voiceover.
But you can do that through
a mechanism called sub-roles.
Sub-role is just another
attribute on an element.
The best example of this are windows.
There's a bunch of different
types of windows on the system.
We've got document windows,
floating windows, system windows, sheets,
all these kinds of things.
Sheets was a bad example because
that actually has a different role.
But all those other types of
windows all use the window role.
But we found that in some cases,
assistive applications need to tell
the difference between a dialogue
window and a document window.
So we do that with a sub-role.
The sub-role says, oh, it's a document.
Oh, it's a dialogue.
And now an assistive application can,
if it wants, look at that sub-role and
make a better decision about
what to do with your element.
But at the same time,
it can keep working just like a
window normally could in that app.
So you don't force anybody to rev.
Another thing we found is people
are very tempted to come up with
a special role because they look
at an element's purpose in the
sense of their overall application.
For example,
you might have a toolbar and that
toolbar might have a print button on it.
And you realize that, hey,
printing is very fundamental
to my application.
So I really want this to be a print role.
We need to avoid that temptation,
mainly because the notion that
this button is a print button is
already conveyed by something else.
We've given you a couple of
ways that that's possible.
Obviously, that button might have
a title that says print,
so the user already knows it prints.
If it doesn't have a title,
you probably put a description
on it that says print.
So the user already has these ways
for determining a button's purpose.
So don't be tempted to give it a
new role just because it has some
unique purpose in your application.
Again, just like with attributes,
you need to use the standard actions.
There's a small handful of them,
and they support just the
most basic mouse interaction.
If you're tempted to give
an element a new action,
see if maybe you can't achieve
the same thing by giving it
an attribute that's settable.
Best example of this is the
selectability of text in an edit field.
We could have introduced some complex set
of actions so that you can set selection
here and then set selection there.
No, we don't bother with that.
That gets really complex.
Instead,
there's just a writable attribute
that is the selected text range,
so the user can set that that way.
[Transcript missing]
So as we implement our interfaces,
a lot of us use grouping views.
And in fact, some of these grouping views
that we put in our windows,
they're forced on us by, well, me.
You know,
I put various views in your windows,
and Mike puts Cocoa views
in your windows.
And so the real implementation hierarchy
might look something like this.
You've got a window.
Inside the window, there's a frame view.
Inside that frame view,
there's a content view.
Of course, there's other views for
implementation details.
And there's a button.
And in Cocoa,
there's even a button cell inside that.
Well, you don't want all that
complexity to be seen by a user
of an assistive application.
Like VoiceOver,
mainly because a sighted user
doesn't see that complexity either
when they glance at the interface.
So for accessibility purposes,
you want your interface
to look like this.
There's a window,
and there's a button in it.
And the way you achieve this is
through the notion of ignored elements.
There's a Carbon API called
HIObjectSetAccessibilityIgnored.
You can pass any HIObject,
which means any control.
You really only want
to use it on controls.
And you can say, hey,
ignore this control.
You know,
I just use it for grouping purposes.
And I think in Cocoa,
the method name is just
set accessibility ignored.
Accessibility is ignored.
And you can just call that with
true to mark an object as ignored.
Now,
a similar but subtly different point is
the concept of suppressing an element.
Some applications that we've
played with bring up parts of their
interface just at a certain time.
A good example might be a
download status dialog in an app.
When the file's done downloading and
the app wants to get rid of that window,
some apps just move it off screen.
You know, they make sure they move it
to some crazy coordinate,
10,000, 20,000, so they know it's not
visible to the user.
Well, the problem with that
technique is accessibility
still knows about that window.
It still looks logically visible
from our API perspective,
so both frameworks
report that to the user.
And so that's really odd that a
user of VoiceOver can get this
window that's off in la-la land.
You want to avoid those
situations entirely.
And it doesn't just happen with windows.
Some applications move their controls
away to some crazy coordinate just so
that they're not visible to the user.
So if you are one of these applications
or you see your code doing this,
make sure to logically hide the objects,
logically hide your windows,
logically hide your controls.
So one thing.
Sometimes people new to accessibility.
Get these two concepts mixed up,
ignored and hidden.
So when something's ignored,
even though it's not there from
an accessibility point of view,
its children sort of pass through.
If you hide a view,
it's gone along with all its descendants.
So those are really different concepts.
And usually if something's ignored,
it's always ignored.
And whereas as your UI,
if your UI is dynamics,
whether something's hidden or
not might change over time.
And so try not to get
those two things confused.
So you'll also find other cases where
you need to provide accessibility
information for an element that
doesn't have an object to back it.
Best example of this is the scroll bar.
If you use Accessibility Inspector and
you look at a scroll bar,
sure, there's a scroll bar element there,
but there's also some button elements
in the scroll bar to represent the up,
down, and left, right buttons.
And in fact,
there's buttons to represent the
page up and page down regions,
and then there's an indicator
element to represent the thumb.
Well, there's no actual view in our view
system to represent those subcomponents.
It's all part of the
overarching scroll bar view.
So if you have a similar sort of
situation in your application,
the way to deal with that
is by creating objects,
sort of dummy objects,
to represent them as
accessibility objects.
In Carbon, you'd create an HI object
subclass potentially to do that.
When you do this,
you're fundamentally creating a
new accessible object from scratch.
So again,
you are responsible for providing all the
attributes and actions for that object.
But there's some shortcuts you can use
to sort of get around that requirement.
Generally, you want the instance,
the dummy object, to provide things like
the parent and the role.
But oftentimes, you can either,
by routing Carbon events or
calling methods on the parent,
you can delegate some of the
responsibility to the parent
code to at least keep your
code kind of self-contained.
Another cool thing about this
is since they're dummy objects,
you don't really need to create
them until they're needed.
Don't instantiate them at
view construction time,
because you don't necessarily
know that accessibility is on.
And even if accessibility is on,
maybe the user's never going to
go to that scroll bar or whatever.
So create the instances
only when they're needed.
Maybe the first time the
parent object is hit tested,
or the parent object is asked
for its children attribute
or something like that.
And the other important point
is make sure the parent does the
hit testing and focus testing.
Otherwise, Accessible--sorry,
Assistive Applications won't be
able to find those dummy objects.
So now Mike is going to go into
some details on troubleshooting
some common problems with the
accessorization of your applications.
Okay, so yeah,
I have a few slides and I'm going to
talk about some common problems that you
might run into accessorizing your app.
So the first one's pretty simple.
Make sure accessibility is on.
You need to go to System Prefs,
and there's a checkbox that says,
"Enable access for assistive devices."
And you need to make sure that's on.
Now, this is not the same as turning
on Spoken Interface or VoiceOver,
which is an assistive app
that requires the access for
assistive devices to be on.
and David So it's up to you whether
or not you want to enable voiceover.
The next point is really
specific to Cocoa apps.
And this is a pretty good habit
to run into if you're implementing
accessibility on your Cocoa app.
And that is to run with
NS Accessibility debug log level of 1.
And I usually do this with
a command line argument,
although you could write it to your
system prefs and always run that way.
And I'll neither confirm nor deny
what values other than 1 will do.
But if you specify one,
what's going to happen is,
as the Cocoa app runs,
it's going to spew informative
error messages to the console
concerning accessibility.
Now, perhaps what's more important than
the error messages themselves is
the fact that you're going to get a
clue that something's going wrong.
One thing that both
Carbon and Cocoa do is,
when handling requests from
assistive applications,
is we eat any errors or any exceptions
that are raised during the process,
because we don't want an assistive
app to be able to go in and
crash some other application.
And because we just eat these exceptions,
you may have no clue that
something's going wrong,
and your app may just sort
of mysteriously seem to not
work with accessibility.
So if you turn on this option,
If your app's not working
and you turn on this option,
it's likely you're going to see
all kinds of spewage informing
you of what might be going wrong.
Now if we return to the example
Guy gave of a scroll bar and
has it with its five children,
the up and down arrows and the page up
and the page down region and the thumb,
and say you've gone through the trouble
of implementing something like that,
and then you go over and you use the
accessibility inspector and none of the
little pieces of your scroll bar show up.
And that's pretty frustrating,
so I'm going to give you some tips on how
I would go about sort of debugging that.
First off, it could be that there's
something going wrong,
some exception's being thrown,
and you just don't realize it.
So if you use the NS Accessibility
Debug Log Level of 1,
look at that console output,
see if some exception's being thrown,
and that's the root of your problem.
The next thing that might be going
wrong is in Accessibility Inspector,
you're using the mouse to
sort of mouse over the widgets
you're interested in looking at.
And so that involves hit testing.
Now, in the frameworks,
we can do hit testing and we can
figure out if this points over a
window or even what view it's over.
But the fact that there's
a thumb in your scroll bar,
we have no idea that that's going on.
And how accessibility works is we're
going to tell your scroll bar view,
look, we think the mouse is in you.
And now this is your chance
to refine that search and
tell us about some children.
And if you don't do that,
your children are not going to show up.
So that's a common mistake.
So, the next thing you might
want to look at is,
if the children aren't showing up,
is actually go to the parent object.
Maybe you can get your mouse over
that in Accessibility Inspector and
look at the array of children.
And if you're, you know,
if the thumb and the up and the down
arrow aren't even in that array,
well then you've got even
more fundamental problem.
Perhaps there's some exception
being thrown that's keeping
your children attribute from
returning the proper value.
And if none of that is the problem,
then one other thing you might
want to look at is the coordinates
you're using for your hit testing.
Remember that the Accessibility APIs all
deal in terms of screen coordinates.
Now, on the framework end,
we each have a slight twist on it.
In Carbon apps,
you're going to get a coordinate in
top left relative screen coordinates.
And in Cocoa,
it's going to be bottom left relative.
But in either case,
it's global coordinates.
So if you're doing your computations
in sort of view relative coordinates,
that could easily be what's going wrong.
And then the final point is
something Guy already touched on,
and that's the issue of
something being ignored.
If the element you're
returning is ignored,
then it's not going to work properly.
And as an example, in Cocoa,
NSViews have no visible, you know,
a plain generic view has nothing
to show for itself on the screen,
no way for the user to interact with it.
So by default, views are ignored.
And if your object descends from NSView,
you need to go in there and have
the accessibility is ignored method.
You need to override it to return no.
Here's a couple more problems
that sometimes arise.
It's important that the hierarchy
be sort of self-consistent.
And that means that if the
UI element says that some
other UI element is its parent,
if I go to that parent and
I look in the children list,
I better find that child in the list.
And if that's not the case,
then you might get
sort of weird behavior.
You know,
the assistive app might work in an
inconsistent way because depending on
what path it takes through the hierarchy,
it may discover the child or it may not.
So that's a common thing to look at,
and we actually have a tool
that makes these checks for you.
And then the last point is once
again something Guy mentioned before.
Sometimes people's user interfaces
are dynamic and you hide things.
Maybe you move it way off screen or
maybe you obscure it with something
that draws opaque white over it.
Well, if you do that,
the underlying elements are still going
to be available to assistive apps.
And assistive apps, you know,
they may press a button that
no user could normally press.
And this may exercise code paths in
your app that haven't been tested,
rather dangerous thing to be doing.
So you want to hide things
in a sort of proper way,
either rip them out of the view
hierarchy completely or use the
appropriate method from your
framework to actually hide the view.
Our last major section is on performance.
I have a couple slides that discuss
how should doing all this affect
the performance of your application.
The bottom line is it really shouldn't
affect the performance of your
application unless accessibility is on.
That's the principle that both
Carbon and Cocoa have used
in implementing this stuff,
that we don't want anyone to
pay any price for this unless
accessibility is turned on.
And so to help you out with that,
you don't have to really
worry about making our calls.
We're pretty careful.
If you want to set an attribute or
you want to post a notification,
you know,
go ahead and do it because we're
going to bail out really quickly
if accessibility is not on.
And sometimes we're even smarter.
When it comes to posting notifications,
if we're actually going to check,
is anyone even listening for
notifications on this object?
Because if no one is, you know,
we're going to do nothing.
Now when it comes to your code,
if you want to optimize it this way,
you're going to need a way to
test if accessibility is on.
And you might want to use, in fact,
the only way to do this is to
test if the accessibility API is
turned on using AX API enabled.
And this is a call from the
accessibility API that you can make.
And you should check it out before
you do any expensive operations.
Another thing to note is
you shouldn't have to worry
about accessibility being on.
Don't worry about accessibility being
turned on while your app's running.
If you make this check
at the beginning of,
at launch, that's fine.
I know if you get in
there and you play around,
it kind of seems to work that
you can turn it on while an
app's running and things work.
But that's not something you can rely on.
And it's, you know,
it's a little bit of a challenge.
And so, again,
that's sort of a warning to
the assistive app developers,
too.
If accessibility gets turned on,
users are expected to quit and
restart any running applications.
And a final tip is something
also that Guy mentioned,
is sort of be lazy about
creating any data structures
associated with accessibility.
So if we go back to the example of
the scroll bar with all the children,
you know,
I would create the children when I'm
asked for them and then only keep
them around long enough to satisfy
that request and then throw them out.
There's no reason to have these things
around and then they'll get out of
sync if your scroll bar changes state.
So it's much simpler just
to create them as needed.
And now we have a couple slides talking
about the resources available to you.
And the first one I want to plug is
our accessibility dev mailing list.
And this is a public mailing list
that you should subscribe to.
You can ask all your questions on it.
If you come up with some weird widget
and you don't know how to accessorize it,
you know, post an email.
This list is trolled by Guy and myself
actively and some other engineers.
And, you know, we don't promise that
we have all the answers.
Accessibility has been a--the whole
story has been evolving since Jaguar.
And more often than we'd like to admit,
you know, people come up with weird
UIs that we hadn't thought about.
How is this going to
work with accessibility?
But if you post to this list,
we can usually steer you
in the right direction.
And finally, there's three documents
relating to accessibility.
One of them is for people
writing assistive apps.
And even if you're just
accessorizing your app,
it might be useful to peruse that one.
And then there's a Cocoa-specific
document and a Carbon-specific document
for accessorizing your applications.
And now we'll open it up for Q&A.